mns meeting
===========

- Time: June 5th 2024
- Present: Csilla, Jaska, Trond


# Agenda
- Status
- Speller
- Linguistics
- Corpus
- Next meeting


# Status
## Testing
- Up since last time. yaml tests not easy to read after reorganisation.

## Trond
Work on speller evaluation, finally understanding the tests and now both long vowels and capital letters (Эспоо) are now ok.

## Csilla
Went down on the missing lst, down to 400:
    - added missing stems to stem list
    - when bad analyses, added the missing ones

Been to conferences. One talk on Mansi and the societal situation, one on corpus building.

## Jack
Discussed with Csilla on postpositions and ordinal numerals (these things pretty much in place).

Now back on a big issue: adding long and short forms to endings.

# Speller

Results, see test diary.

The results are good enough for use. We should advice key users to test the online speller. Thereafter we may **publish** the speller in DM. Before that, we would still like to:

1. Have Csilla **use** the spellchecker in order to get a look-and-feel
2. Systematically look for proper nouns in LS
3. Jack and Trond to discuss uusia oivalluksia in the suggestion mechanism
4. do technical testing on the speller in the Divvun Manager

Thus: Agitprop whenever after today, but **launch** in the autumn.

# Linguistics
## Numerals and other numbers
Ordinals +A+Ord, cardinals +Num (?). Have looks at 
[10.32] Trond Trosterud
lang-mns/src/fst/transcriptions/*.lexc ad lib.


## The missing list

We want a new version of the missing list. We now do:
    1. Csilla corrects postpositions and **does not** touch the *Luima_Seripos_2013-2017.missing.freq.240208* file
    2. Meanwhile, Jack **finishes** the reported and thus open issues in this file
    3. When there are no more open issues, we make a new missing.freq file, perhaps from a bigger corpus (cf. next issue).

# Corpus

Børre has adjusted the borders. We must evaluate and then recovert.

The column-final hyphens are still problematic, we must look into that with Børre.


# Next meeting

To be decided upon, appr in two weeks.


News Flash!!

Do we want to do anything for this: IWCLUL 2024 at Metropolia, Helsinki?
    https://acl-sigur.github.io/iwclul2024.html

Probably yes. We return to this on next meeting.
