mns meeting
===========
- Time: Feb 23th 2024
- Present: Csilla, Jaska, Trond

# Agenda

- status
- Speller suggestions
- Composed у + macron
- Lexicons
- The missing list
- The yaml errors

# Status

Test results (to be added)

- 240223: 1-(32962/707721) = 0.95343

# Speller suggestions

## Bug for GOS vowels
Long vowels (except ӯ, ӣ) are rejected by the speller, and are not suggested as well.

Furthermore: Edit distance is not shown.

TODO (Trond): Make an issue


## typos.txt testbed

Csilla to add typos markup (error<tab>correct) from the file
`test/data/Luima_Seripos_2013-2017.missing.freq.240208`
to the file `test/data/typos.txt`

**Trond** to set up testing infrastructure and test.



# Composed у + macron

Words were not analysed. The long u is not our long u. There are 4000 instances of this long u.

- ӯ COMBINING MACRON
- ӯрим with precomposed, is analysed
- ӯрим with compoosed у - macron is not analysed

TODO (Trond): Correct the orthography/ spellrelaxer



# Lexicons

## Doublets

Jaska has fixed the doublets.

    1. totally identical entries: unify
    2. identical lemma: unify with +v1, +v2, thereafter 
    3. Csilla to go through and relegate errouneous +v2s to +Err/Orth

## Long/short vowel minimal pairs in first syll

Perhaps they are not real? 
TODO: Jaska to add comments to minimal pairs to Csilla for check.
184 possible doubles in verbs
156 possible doubles in nouns NOT ALL, of course


# The missing list

... contains various types of errors.

TODO: Csilla to classify errors, indicate what they should be.


# The yaml errors

See last meeting memo (Trond, and then Csilla)


# Next meeting


1.3. klo 11.00 Norjan aika


